testing/3.2-usability-testing.md, before:

# 3.2 Usability Testing

## Criteria To Assess

| Test               | Test Details                                                                                                                        |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1 - Effective      | Describe |
| 2 - Efficient      | Describe |
| 3 - Engaging       | Describe |
| 4 - Error Tolerant | Describe |
| 5 - Easy to Learn  | Describe |

Listed below are the results to the questions. I will go over the results in depth during the evaluation

### User Feedback

## Usability Requirements in Success Criteria

Some of the success criteria requirements fall into the section of usability. These will also be tested now and are listed below:

| Criterion | Description                                        |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| X         | describe the critiera            |

### Criterion X

Describe testing against criteria

Commit message:

GITBOOK-327: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

testing/3.2-usability-testing.md, after:

# 3.2 Usability Testing

## Criteria To Assess

| Test               | Test Details                                                                                                                             |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1 - Effective      | Is the aim of each level easy/ Is the aim of the game clear?                                                                             |
| 2 - Efficient      | Is the menu easy to navigate? Are the controls easy to understand?                                                                       |
| 3 - Engaging       | Is it challenging enough to retain players? Is it easy enough that you can figure out what you have to do? Does it take to long to play? |
| 4 - Error Tolerant | Are there any bugs in the game? Does it run well with a good frame rate?                                                                 |
| 5 - Easy to Learn  | Are the objectives easy enough to understand? Are the controls easy to understand?                                                       |

Listed below are the results to the questions. I will go over the results in depth during the evaluation

### User Feedback

## Usability Requirements in Success Criteria

Some of the success criteria requirements fall into the section of usability. These will also be tested now and are listed below:

| Criterion | Description           |
| --------- | --------------------- |
| X         | describe the critiera |

### Criterion X

Describe testing against criteria
