# 4.1 Evaluation of Success Criteria

## Mechanics

### Criteria

| Criterion | Description                 | When was it achieved |
| --------- | --------------------------- | -------------------- |
| 1         | Movement animation          | Not developed.       |
| 2         | Movement Controls           | Cycle 3              |
| 3         | Side-Scrolling Camera       | Cycle 3              |
| 4         | In Game Physics             | Cycle 3              |
| 5         | Object Interaction Controls | Cycle 3              |
| 6         | Gameplay Interaction        | Cycle 9              |

### Criterion 1 - Not achieved

Movement animation would have referred to having some sort of design for the character moving to try and make it a smoother experience. I have decided to not implement any sort of movement animation as it would take too much time to implement and ultimately not contribute much to the gameplay. With more time this could be a feature that was implemented.

### Criterion 2&#x20;

This is about allowing the player to move, which is obviously a very crucial aspect of my game. The game needs to have basic controls that allows the player to do as they please, including moving and jumping.

### Criterion 3

The camera is a mechanic that allows the player to follow their character as it moves, which is necessary so they can play the game. The use of the side scrolling camera fits my game perfectly as a platformer.

### Criterion 4

In the game there needs to be correct physics aspects. This is crucial as it needs to follow the rules of physics, and also means that the player is unable to do something that would be unexpected.&#x20;

### Criterion 5

This is with regards to the more complex controls, originally interacting with objects, but later also became relevant to the character of the Grungler. This allows the player to do what they want with regards to the objects, which is relevant to trying to solve the puzzles and make it past the levels, and also then for the ability of the Grungler.

### Criterion 6

This has changed since the original requirements drawn up, however it does still meet the same requirements. The point of the interaction is that is aims at hindering the player, so that it is harder for them and ultimately slows them down.

## User interface

### Criteria

| Criterion | Description                  | When was it achieved |
| --------- | ---------------------------- | -------------------- |
| 7         | Menu Interface               | Cycle 10             |
| 8         | Lobbies                      | Not developed.       |
| 9         | Creating an account          | Not developed.       |
| 10        | Saving Progress              | Not developed.       |
| 11        | The UI should be easy to use | Cycle 10             |

### Criterion 7

### Criterion 8

### Criterion 9

### Criterion 10

### Criterion 11

### Other Criterion
