evaluation/4.1-evaluation-of-success-criteria.md, before:

# 4.1 Evaluation of Success Criteria

## Mechanics

### Criteria

| Criterion | Description                 | When was it achieved |
| --------- | --------------------------- | -------------------- |
| 1         | Movement animation          | Not developed.       |
| 2         | Movement Controls           | Cycle 3              |
| 3         | Side-Scrolling Camera       | Cycle 3              |
| 4         | In Game Physics             | Cycle 3              |
| 5         | Object Interaction Controls | Cycle 3              |
| 6         | Gameplay Interaction        | Cycle 9              |

### Criterion 1 - Not achieved

Movement animation would have referred to having some sort of design for the character moving to try and make it a smoother experience. I have decided to not implement any sort of movement animation as it would take too much time to implement and ultimately not contribute much to the gameplay. With more time this could be a feature that was implemented.

### Criterion 2&#x20;

This is about allowing the player to move, which is obviously a very crucial aspect of my game. The game needs to have basic controls that allows the player to do as they please, including moving and jumping.

### Criterion 3

The camera is a mechanic that allows the player to follow their character as it moves, which is necessary so they can play the game. The use of the side scrolling camera fits my game perfectly as a platformer.

### Criterion 4

In the game there needs to be correct physics aspects. This is crucial as it needs to follow the rules of physics, and also means that the player is unable to do something that would be unexpected.&#x20;

### Criterion 5

This is with regards to the more complex controls, originally interacting with objects, but later also became relevant to the character of the Grungler. This allows the player to do what they want with regards to the objects, which is relevant to trying to solve the puzzles and make it past the levels, and also then for the ability of the Grungler.

### Criterion 6

This has changed since the original requirements drawn up, however it does still meet the same requirements. The point of the interaction is that is aims at hindering the player, so that it is harder for them and ultimately slows them down.

## User interface

### Criteria

| Criterion | Description                  | When was it achieved |
| --------- | ---------------------------- | -------------------- |
| 7         | Menu Interface               | Cycle 10             |
| 8         | Lobbies                      | Not developed.       |
| 9         | Creating an account          | Not developed.       |
| 10        | Saving Progress              | Not developed.       |
| 11        | The UI should be easy to use | Cycle 10             |

### Criterion 7

Having a menu screen that is easy to understand seemed crucial given it is the first thing that the user will see

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/image.png" alt="" width="563"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

### Criterion 8

### Criterion 9

### Criterion 10

### Criterion 11

### Other Criterion

Commit message:

GITBOOK-343: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

evaluation/4.1-evaluation-of-success-criteria.md, after:

# 4.1 Evaluation of Success Criteria

## Mechanics

### Criteria

| Criterion | Description                 | When was it achieved |
| --------- | --------------------------- | -------------------- |
| 1         | Movement animation          | Not developed.       |
| 2         | Movement Controls           | Cycle 3              |
| 3         | Side-Scrolling Camera       | Cycle 3              |
| 4         | In Game Physics             | Cycle 3              |
| 5         | Object Interaction Controls | Cycle 3              |
| 6         | Gameplay Interaction        | Cycle 9              |

### Criterion 1 - Not achieved

Movement animation would have referred to having some sort of design for the character moving to try and make it a smoother experience. I have decided to not implement any sort of movement animation as it would take too much time to implement and ultimately not contribute much to the gameplay. With more time this could be a feature that was implemented.

### Criterion 2&#x20;

This is about allowing the player to move, which is obviously a very crucial aspect of my game. The game needs to have basic controls that allows the player to do as they please, including moving and jumping.

### Criterion 3

The camera is a mechanic that allows the player to follow their character as it moves, which is necessary so they can play the game. The use of the side scrolling camera fits my game perfectly as a platformer.

### Criterion 4

In the game there needs to be correct physics aspects. This is crucial as it needs to follow the rules of physics, and also means that the player is unable to do something that would be unexpected.&#x20;

### Criterion 5

This is with regards to the more complex controls, originally interacting with objects, but later also became relevant to the character of the Grungler. This allows the player to do what they want with regards to the objects, which is relevant to trying to solve the puzzles and make it past the levels, and also then for the ability of the Grungler.

### Criterion 6

This has changed since the original requirements drawn up, however it does still meet the same requirements. The point of the interaction is that is aims at hindering the player, so that it is harder for them and ultimately slows them down.

## User interface

### Criteria

| Criterion | Description                  | When was it achieved |
| --------- | ---------------------------- | -------------------- |
| 7         | Menu Interface               | Cycle 10             |
| 8         | Lobbies                      | Not developed.       |
| 9         | Creating an account          | Not developed.       |
| 10        | Saving Progress              | Not developed.       |
| 11        | The UI should be easy to use | Cycle 10             |

### Criterion 7

Having a menu screen that is easy to understand seemed crucial given it is the first thing that the user will see. From this menu, players are able to do whatever they may want to do, whether it be going to a new scene or changing a variable such as the character.

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/image.png" alt="" width="563"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

### Criterion 8 - Not achieved

This would only need to be a feature if multiplayer was added, and since it wasn't this doesn't need to be added, and would only be added if multiplayer was included.

### Criterion 9 - Not achieved

This is a feature that would be added if the database of my project was connected to my game. Due to time constraints that has not been completed and so neither has the criterion.

### Criterion 10 - Not achieved

Due to criterion 9 not being completed, this also cannot be completed, however with more time this would be something that could be implemented.

### Criterion 11

This relates to ensuring that the menu meets the user requirements, mainly being efficient. As shown by my testing in [3.2](../testing/3.2-usability-testing.md#efficient), my users agree that I have met this criterion. By aiming to keep concise and onto only one screen, it is simple and easy to use.

### Other Criterion

When the criterion was created, the game that was planned was different than the current one. Due to this, it only felt right to include other criteria that would have been in this section that weren't included due to the original idea.

### Timer
