evaluation/4.2-evaluation-of-usability-features.md, before:

# 4.2 Evaluation of Usability Features

## Effective

| Feature No. | Description                                           | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| 1           | Create a goal to reach to determine the end of a game | Success      |
| 2           | Create a clear goal for multiplayer                   | Fail         |
| 3           | Create a clear goal for puzzles and minigames         | Success      |
| 4           | Create fair gameplay for all users                    | Success      |

### Feature 1

There is a goal, as developed in [Cycle 7](../design-and-development/2.2.7-cycle-7-adding-the-final-level.md#outcome), which results in the end of the game. From my testing, some people believe that the goal may not be as clear, however the majority do agree given the nature of the game, and recognise that there will be something eventually to signify the end that will be reached after playing through the game.

### Feature 2

This is a fail as multiplayer was a feature that was not added into my game, and therefore adding a clear goal for multiplayer isn't possible. With the addition of multiplayer, which could be possible with more time, this would involve allowing players to comprehend why multiplayer was added and what they are able to do, which shouldn't bee too hard to integrate.&#x20;

### Feature 3

There is a clear goal for puzzles and minigames that is shown to players. For puzzles, aspects of the puzzle are added as they complete different parts of the puzzle, allowing them to see there next goal, creating that clear goal. For minigames, there is text that shows they have to dodge the objects, which they can then frequently see. I believe this shows that the objectives are clear, and my testing from [3.2](../testing/3.2-usability-testing.md#effective) shows the players do generally agree.

### Feature 4

This feature while it may have originally somewhat related to the multiplayer aspect of the game, is definitely still relevant. The gameplay for my game should be balanced with regards to the difficulty and also have the gameplay environment be one that should allow the players to play and beat the game. I ensured to develop my game with this all in mind, as it is a very important aspect of user enjoyment.

## Efficient

| Feature No. | Description                                                                                      | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------ |
| 1           | Create a menu system that is quick and easy to navigate through                                  | Success      |
| 2           | Create a controls system that isn't too complicated but allows the player to do multiple actions | Success      |

### Feature 1

This was a success as the menu meets these requirements of being quick and easy to use. My testing has shown that many users agree with this assessment. The menu was designed so that only one screen is necessary, and all aspects are incorporated as quickly and efficiently as possible.

### Feature 2

## Engaging

| Feature No. | Description                                        | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| 1           | Create a multiplayer mode to play                  | Fail         |
| 2           | Create puzzles and minigames to play               | Success      |
| 3           | Incorporate a style of game art the suits the game | Fail         |

### Feature 1



### Feature 2

### Feature 3

## Error Tolerant

| Feature No. | Description                                                        | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------ |
| 1           | The game doesn't crash                                             | Success      |
| 2           | The game does not contain any bugs that damage the user experience | Fail         |

### Feature 1



### Feature 2

## Easy To Learn

| Feature No. | Description                                            | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ------------ |
| 1           | Have easy to learn controls for the game               | Success      |
| 2           | Create ways of helping the user to beat certain levels | Success      |

### Feature 1



### Feature 2

Commit message:

GITBOOK-355: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

evaluation/4.2-evaluation-of-usability-features.md, after:

# 4.2 Evaluation of Usability Features

## Effective

| Feature No. | Description                                           | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| 1           | Create a goal to reach to determine the end of a game | Success      |
| 2           | Create a clear goal for multiplayer                   | Fail         |
| 3           | Create a clear goal for puzzles and minigames         | Success      |
| 4           | Create fair gameplay for all users                    | Success      |

### Feature 1

There is a goal, as developed in [Cycle 7](../design-and-development/2.2.7-cycle-7-adding-the-final-level.md#outcome), which results in the end of the game. From my testing, some people believe that the goal may not be as clear, however the majority do agree given the nature of the game, and recognise that there will be something eventually to signify the end that will be reached after playing through the game.

### Feature 2

This is a fail as multiplayer was a feature that was not added into my game, and therefore adding a clear goal for multiplayer isn't possible. With the addition of multiplayer, which could be possible with more time, this would involve allowing players to comprehend why multiplayer was added and what they are able to do, which shouldn't bee too hard to integrate.&#x20;

### Feature 3

There is a clear goal for puzzles and minigames that is shown to players. For puzzles, aspects of the puzzle are added as they complete different parts of the puzzle, allowing them to see there next goal, creating that clear goal. For minigames, there is text that shows they have to dodge the objects, which they can then frequently see. I believe this shows that the objectives are clear, and my testing from [3.2](../testing/3.2-usability-testing.md#effective) shows the players do generally agree.

### Feature 4

This feature while it may have originally somewhat related to the multiplayer aspect of the game, is definitely still relevant. The gameplay for my game should be balanced with regards to the difficulty and also have the gameplay environment be one that should allow the players to play and beat the game. I ensured to develop my game with this all in mind, as it is a very important aspect of user enjoyment.

## Efficient

| Feature No. | Description                                                                                      | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------ |
| 1           | Create a menu system that is quick and easy to navigate through                                  | Success      |
| 2           | Create a controls system that isn't too complicated but allows the player to do multiple actions | Success      |

### Feature 1

This was a success as the menu meets these requirements of being quick and easy to use. My testing has shown that many users agree with this assessment. The menu was designed so that only one screen is necessary, and all aspects are incorporated as quickly and efficiently as possible to meet this feature as much as possible.

### Feature 2

The game needs to be easy to understand and to play, therefore showcasing the importance of having simple controls. Using the most basic and expected controls of WASD for my game helps, alongside clearly detailing any other controls the player may need to use makes this feature a success.

## Engaging

| Feature No. | Description                                        | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| 1           | Create a multiplayer mode to play                  | Fail         |
| 2           | Create puzzles and minigames to play               | Success      |
| 3           | Incorporate a style of game art the suits the game | Fail         |

### Feature 1

This feature is a fail since despite originally being a very key aspect of the game, it proved an aspect that proved too time-consuming and difficult to add. This caused a big change in the criteria and direction of my game, and so ultimately I have not met this criteria at all.

### Feature 2

These levels are a major aspect of the gameplay

### Feature 3

## Error Tolerant

| Feature No. | Description                                                        | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------ |
| 1           | The game doesn't crash                                             | Success      |
| 2           | The game does not contain any bugs that damage the user experience | Fail         |

### Feature 1



### Feature 2

## Easy To Learn

| Feature No. | Description                                            | Success/Fail |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ------------ |
| 1           | Have easy to learn controls for the game               | Success      |
| 2           | Create ways of helping the user to beat certain levels | Success      |

### Feature 1



### Feature 2
