# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* **Length of gameplay ->** Currently, there are only 8 scenes of gameplay, which results in gameplay being a few minutes. Ideally, there would be more scenes to allow for longer but also more varied gameplay which would improve the overall gameplay experience.
* **Performance ->** The game runs on a browser and therefore requires an internet connection to be played, which can limit when people can play the game.
* **Accessibility ->** The game is only run from a browser and therefore can only be played on PC or laptop. While it is accessible to most if not all browsers, the game could be expanded to having support for controller support.
* **Productivity ->** Aiming to fix any issues that may occur from players after playing the game would be tough to fix, especially since it is just one person working on the game and not a team of people.
* **Graphics ->** There are no real graphics currently implemented into the game, and even if graphics were to be implemented, they would still be quite basic art style.

## Maintenance

Keeping maintenance for my game would require aiming to ensure the game remains without bugs and also expanding the game. The size of these developments could vary depending on the size and capabilities of the plans for the game, however, they would all aim to improve or add to the game. It would be sensible to aim to keep the same language and structure as the rest of the game.

**Short-term maintenance:**&#x20;

Aspects of short-term maintenance need to focus on any errors immediately found in the game, for example, found in my testing. It would focus less on adding features to the game and more on fixing errors that have been previously found, and ensuring the game continues to function as expected.

Smaller features such as a good looking UI and art styles are aspects that could be implemented quickly. Along with this, addressing any issues that came up in my testing would be important for maintainability and allowing me to meet the elements where users felt could be improved such as the aims of the game or the minigames, or aiming to reduce lag present in the game.

**Long-term maintenance:**&#x20;

The aspects of long-term maintenance relevant to my game are adding levels to the game to aim to improve the overall experience. There is also adding more characters to the game as well, as another way to include more variance in gameplay.

## Future Development

### Short Term Bug Fixes

* **"Text error**" -> There is an issue for these levels where the instances of text would cause errors for some reason. This is something that can be easily fixed, by updating the text usage throughout the game.
* **Allowing playability for different resolutions** -> The game should be playable for everyone, so allowing all different types of resolutions allows many more users to play. The only instance of different resolutions impacting gameplay was with the cactus in a minigame.
* **Getting out of the map** -> When using the Grungler character, it was possible to get out of the map. While I knew this was always a possibility, and had aimed to try and prevent it where possible, inevitably players managed to find a way to get out of the map again. More preventative measures could be put in place so that rigorous testing against this, especially potentially for any future maps, to fix this issue.

### Long Term Addressing Limitations

* **Multiplayer** -> The main long-term aspect to include would be multiplayer, given that's how the game was originally designed. Allowing for both single-player and multiplayer would give the user more ways to play, and allow them to play with friends. Giving players much more choice in how they want to play the game is something that is always positive and improves their experience.
* **Creating an account** -> While I was able to create a database, I felt prioritising the actual game as opposed to non-functional features such as an account was more important. However, given the work I have done, adding this feature would hopefully not be too complex, and would allow adding things for users who play, such as rewards.
* **Length of gameplay ->** There should be more levels added to the game to ultimately allow for a better and more varied gameplay experience. More levels would be especially important if combined with adding multiplayer, but in general means players can't get used to the same levels every time and will feel that puzzle element more.
* **Accessibility** **->** Allowing for more users, notably users on different platforms such as console, is a good idea for this game if it is going to expand. In case of adding console playability, new controls would need to be added, to allow for controllers to play the game.
* **Performance ->** For having the game expand, it would be important to have the game not run on browser, as this would not give the best performance for the game.
* **Graphics ->** If the game was to grow, it would be very important to have detailed graphics used for all aspects of the game, such as the background and the objects, and to potentially allow for some sort of story element.
