# 1.1 Problem Identification

Video games and puzzle games in particular are proven to have a positive impact on the cognitive ability of the player. Video games are known to improve abilities such as visual-spatial recognition, working memory and information processing speed and according to (Pallavincini, Ferrari and Mantovani, 2018), puzzle games can also improve both the cognitive and emotional abilities of adults, therefore showing the positive impact of puzzle games. There is also a benefit in games being multiplayer, as discussed by (O’Connor, 2022), as the social aspect of these multiplayer games can be a positive for some players. The multiplayer market is also one that has been growing, as shown by (Charity, 2023), and therefore is a desirable market to be in for my game.

People play video games for many other reasons as well. Many feel it offers relaxation and a way to remove stress and as (Pallavicini, Pepe and Mantovani, 2022) found&#x20;

> playing video games can help to reduce stress, anxiety, and depression.

The video game market is one that has been growing, and will only continue to in the coming years, being worth £7.16 billion in 2021 (Osborn, 2022) and had spending on software of £4.28 billion. This therefore shows the market is one that is very popular, and will only continue to grow, and so is a market that is worth trying to appeal to, considering it's large amount of consumers.

With regards to the genres of video games, puzzle and strategy games are quite popular, as shown by (Clement, 2022), with roughly 34.8% of the gamers from the age groups playing the genre, meaning it is not far behind the very popular shooter and action adventure games. However, despite the genre's popularity, there are many different version and deviations of puzzle games, and so with creating a puzzle game, there still remains many different unique designs yet to be explored.

