analysis/1.3-research-the-problem.md, before:

# 1.3 Research

## Existing Solution 1 (of 3 or 4)

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/LameFlashyBoubou-max-1mb.gif" alt=""><figcaption><p>Gameplay from Bloons TD Battles 2</p></figcaption></figure>

### Overview

In this game, you control one side of the screen in an online tower defense game and have to place different types of monkeys to defend against oncoming "bloons". The aim is to not let the bloons go all the way round various different maps, as that would mean you lose life. Some of these bloons come automatically from each player, however some can come from your opponent on the other side of the screen, when they pay for them. In return, you can try and get your opponent to lose life, but you can also gain the amount of money you make each cycle.

### Aspect 1 (of 2-4 aspects per solution?)

A more detailed description of some aspect of this solution

### Features

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Features I will Include" %}
| Feature             | Justification                               |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| Feature description | Some reason it's a good fit in this project |
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Features I won" %}
| Feature             | Justification                                              |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Feature description | Reason it's beyond the scope/not suitable for this project |
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-57: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

analysis/1.3-research-the-problem.md, after:

# 1.3 Research

## Bloons TD Battles 2

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/LameFlashyBoubou-max-1mb.gif" alt=""><figcaption><p>Gameplay from Bloons TD Battles 2</p></figcaption></figure>

### Overview

In this game, you control one side of the screen in an online tower defense game and have to place and then upgrade different types of monkeys to defend against oncoming "bloons". The aim is to not let the bloons go all the way round various different maps, as that would mean you lose life. Some of these bloons come automatically for each player at the start of each round, however some can come from your opponent on the other side of the screen when they pay for them. In return for sending more bloons at your opponent, you can try and get your opponent to lose life, but you can also increase the amount of money you make each cycle. The winner is then the person who doesn't lose all of their life, or if the game goes all 40 rounds, the player with the most life.

### Controls

The game uses the mouse to&#x20;

### Features

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Features I will Include" %}
| Feature             | Justification                               |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| Feature description | Some reason it's a good fit in this project |
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Features I won" %}
| Feature             | Justification                                              |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Feature description | Reason it's beyond the scope/not suitable for this project |
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}
