analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md, before:

# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Mechanics

### Movement

The characters will move at a constant speed without acceleration. This will give the user more control as their character will use at the same speed at all times, and mean that they can focus on puzzles rather than worrying about managing the speed of their character.

### Controls

The game will use the WASD controls to allow the characters to move, which is very common for games utilising a keyboard, and the spacebar will be used for jumping. The game will also have an interaction key which would be 'E', allowing the user to interact with the map when trying to find and then beat the puzzles. These controls will be used for both users as it is an online game, but there will not be a local gamemode such as in [Fireboy and Watergirl](1.3-research-the-problem.md#features-i-will-include-1).

### Two Player

The game will have two players playing together in a split screen scenario like that of [Bloons TD Battles 2](1.3-research-the-problem.md#overview), and will similarly allow them to interact with each other. The players should aim to prevent their opponents from beating their game, while simultaneously being able to try and beat their game first. The maps for the two players will be different, as to prevent potential cheating as the game is split screen.

### Collisions&#x20;

In the game there will be the possibility for the character to hit in to objects or walls, causing collisions. Therefore it is important the interactions work as planed, as when in the map the character should remain where they are, but in certain minigames there may be different desired interactions, such as failing a that minigame. Therefore it is important that they work as intended and that the character cannot go through the walls or any other unintended bugs.

## Layout and design

### Camera View

The perspective of the player will be a side scrolling camera featuring platforms, similar to [Fireboy and Watergirl](1.3-research-the-problem.md#overview-1). The player will have to explore the map to find puzzles to beat and then to eventually make their way out of the map. The camera will follow the character as they move along the map, keeping the character in the same position as they move along, but will also mean that the will be unable to see much of the map further around them.

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/side scolling camera.gif" alt=""><figcaption><p>Implementation of a side scrolling camera</p></figcaption></figure>

### Puzzles and Minigames

The game will focus on the puzzles, that will are able to be found at random points throughout the map and will change with each play through. The puzzles that are found will also be random, as to allow for players to replay the game.

The way these various minigames work will be one player aiming to beat the games, while the other player in the split screen is able to watch and to interact with them, being able to try and stop them from completing the challenge. These minigames will not be in the map, being in a new environment, however there will be puzzles that are not minigames on the map that require solving that cannot be changed by your opponent.

### Obstacles and objects

In the game the player will need to interact with obstacles and objects in the game, with the interaction key highlighted in [controls](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#controls). Interaction with these objects could be from activating minigames to moving obstacles to find a way out of part of a map. None of these obstacles will aim to harm the player, only slow them down as they try to figure out how they can get past them.

## User interface and Graphics

### Menu



### Graphics



## Limitations

### Limitation 1

Description of a limitation, due to scope/time constraints or difficulty of implementation.

Commit message:

GITBOOK-162: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md, after:

# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Mechanics

### Movement

The characters will move at a constant speed without acceleration. This will give the user more control as their character will use at the same speed at all times, and mean that they can focus on puzzles rather than worrying about managing the speed of their character.

### Controls

The game will use the WASD controls to allow the characters to move, which is very common for games utilising a keyboard, and the spacebar will be used for jumping. The game will also have an interaction key which would be 'E', allowing the user to interact with the map when trying to find and then beat the puzzles. These controls will be used for both users as it is an online game, but there will not be a local gamemode such as in [Fireboy and Watergirl](1.3-research-the-problem.md#features-i-will-include-1).

### Two Player

The game will have two players playing together in a split screen scenario like that of [Bloons TD Battles 2](1.3-research-the-problem.md#overview), and will similarly allow them to interact with each other. The players should aim to prevent their opponents from beating their game, while simultaneously being able to try and beat their game first. The maps for the two players will be different, as to prevent potential cheating as the game is split screen.

### Collisions&#x20;

In the game there will be the possibility for the character to hit in to objects or walls, causing collisions. Therefore it is important the interactions work as planed, as when in the map the character should remain where they are, but in certain minigames there may be different desired interactions, such as failing a that minigame. Therefore it is important that they work as intended and that the character cannot go through the walls or any other unintended bugs.

## Layout and design

### Camera View

The perspective of the player will be a side scrolling camera featuring platforms, similar to [Fireboy and Watergirl](1.3-research-the-problem.md#overview-1). The player will have to explore the map to find puzzles to beat and then to eventually make their way out of the map. The camera will follow the character as they move along the map, keeping the character in the same position as they move along, but will also mean that the will be unable to see much of the map further around them.

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/side scolling camera.gif" alt=""><figcaption><p>Implementation of a side scrolling camera</p></figcaption></figure>

### Puzzles and Minigames

The game will focus on the puzzles, that will are able to be found at random points throughout the map and will change with each play through. The puzzles that are found will also be random, as to allow for players to replay the game.

The way these various minigames work will be one player aiming to beat the games, while the other player in the split screen is able to watch and to interact with them, being able to try and stop them from completing the challenge. These minigames will not be in the map, being in a new environment, however there will be puzzles that are not minigames on the map that require solving that cannot be changed by your opponent.

### Obstacles and objects

In the game the player will need to interact with obstacles and objects in the game, with the interaction key highlighted in [controls](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#controls). Interaction with these objects could be from activating minigames to moving obstacles to find a way out of part of a map. None of these obstacles will aim to harm the player, only slow them down as they try to figure out how they can get past them.

## User interface and Graphics

### Menu

Players should have a useable menu to navigate when logging in to the game, that should allow them to perform actions such ascreate and join lobbies and change settings.&#x20;

### Design



### Save



## Limitations

### Limitation 1

Description of a limitation, due to scope/time constraints or difficulty of implementation.
