# 1.4b Computational Methods

## Thinking Abstractly and Visualisation

Thinking abstractly is a core part of programming and is about being able to focus on the key parts of the program and removing the unnecessary elements to complete the main task. Abstraction is about separating the logical and physical aspects of a problem and using a model to represent the problem. The use of thinking abstractly is that it helps programmers to problem solve as they identify problems and their patterns.

An aspect of thinking abstractly would come into the visuals in my game. I can spend less time and have less detail in the visuals of my game, and spend more time on aspects more integral to my game. This could include the background and using a simpler art style to focus on the parts of my project that are necessary for it to work rather than just look good.&#x20;

## Thinking Ahead

Thinking ahead is an important part of programming, given that it allows you to think about and plan in advance for what should be required from your program. After using abstraction to identify the integral aspects of the program, the use of thinking ahead then allows for the programmer to ensure an efficient outcome, and to plan about using aspects such as caching and pre-fetching. By thinking ahead, you can allow for future adjustments after planning out and documenting that plan, to allow for the project to meet its requirements. If changes eventually do need to be made, having a plan that is flexible and detailed better allows for adaptions, so any adjustments can be made and there shouldn't need to be a complete overhaul of the project.&#x20;

In terms of my project, planning out all the different aspects can help clarify what needs to be done, and also help with logical sequencing for these subroutines. I know what I want involved in my game, and can then help plan out how my game would logically work and what aspects are more central to my overall idea. I have also planned out aspects not involving the actual game, such as what programming language to use, which for me is kaboom.js as it is a language that is very effective for designing a game.

## Thinking Procedurally and Decomposition

Decomposition is about breaking down a problem into several smaller problems that all work together to solve the original problem. This allows programmers to have the task split into several small sub-sections that are a lot smaller and easier to complete, and plan the overall method of solution. It is important to think procedurally and to order and divide these subroutines logically, so these numerous parts can all come together to form the original program.

I can use thinking procedurally and decomposition in my own project to break down all aspects of my solution and think about what aspects of the solution and in what order need to be done. This concept of logical sequencing in my project should allow me to cover all aspects of my project in the subroutines. The code I do write should be structured to keep it sustainable and allow for me or anyone else who may see the code to understand it via selection, comments and iteration.

## Thinking Logically

Thinking logically is about aiming to maintain a good and logical code that is clear, precise, and efficient. To maintain this, efforts should be made by the programmer to plan where errors may occur in thinking logically, such as hierarchy charts, flowcharts, and pseudocode. Conditional statements that involve decisions are perhaps the most common cause of logic errors, and therefore testing different inputs is crucial and so trace table scan help prevent these logical errors.

Within my game, I should make sure that the various imports from the user correspond to the correct output. Examples of this include:

* When a player interacts with an object, the correct response should happen, whether it be a mini-game, text or nothing.
* When an action occurs, there should be the correct and corresponding sound should play.
* The progress of the player should be saved to their account, so they could then be able to continue from a new platform if they wanted.



## Thinking Concurrently

Thinking concurrently is about having multiple processes running simultaneously, by having an overall task being broken down into smaller tasks for the processors to complete. Considering my game has two screens running simultaneously, thinking concurrently is a crucial element, and if used correctly there can be a faster experience. Uses of thinking concurrently in my game would be:

* When a button is pressed, multiple things may occur, and potentially across both screens and so all of these must occur separately.
* When one player interacts with another in the game, there will be a result for the players. These interactions will be separate and completely different, and therefore will have to run simultaneously, but seamlessly and not cause any complications.
