analysis/1.5-success-criteria.md, before:

# 1.5 Success Criteria

### Broad Category 1

| Ref. No. | Criterion   | Justification                                                                                                                                                       | Reference |
| -------- | ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| 1        | Description | <ul><li><a href="https://github.com/Marling-School/alevel-project-template/blob/docs/1-analysis/features-of-the-proposed-solution.md">link to feature</a></li></ul> |           |

```
                                                                 |
```

### Non-functional

These are features which are not descriptions of functionality. They are more like suitability, such as age rating appropriateness, or performance of algorithms/response times for UI etc.

| Ref. No. | Criterion | Justification                                                  | Reference |
| -------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| 21       |           | <ul><li><a href="1.2-stakeholders.md">Stakholder</a></li></ul> |           |

Commit message:

GITBOOK-206: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

analysis/1.5-success-criteria.md, after:

# 1.5 Success Criteria

### Mechanics&#x20;

| Ref. No. | Criterion             | Justification                                                                                                                                                                        | Reference |
| -------- | --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------- |
| 1        | Movement Animation    | When the character moves, it should have an accompanying animation, to visually indicate that the character is moving to the players.                                                |           |
| 2        | Movement Controls     | The characters will move using WASD controls, allowing them to move in all directions.                                                                                               |           |
| 3        | Side-scrolling Camera | When the character moves, the players camera needs to as well, and so a side scrolling camera will be implemented for this reason.                                                   |           |
| 4        | Collisions            | When the character runs into a wall or falls of a platform, they should act correctly according to what would happen, an                                                             |           |
| 5        | Interaction Controls  | The player may have to interact with objects, and this can be done through the 'E' key.                                                                                              |           |
| 6        | Split Screen          | The game will be online split screen, and so both players can see both players perspective.                                                                                          |           |
| 7        | Two Separate Worlds   | The players will not be playing the exact same game, as there will be slight differences in the minigames to prevent aspects of copying potentially present in a split screen game.  |           |
| 8        |                       |                                                                                                                                                                                      |           |

```
                                                                 |
```

### Non-functional

These are features which are not descriptions of functionality. They are more like suitability, such as age rating appropriateness, or performance of algorithms/response times for UI etc.

| Ref. No. | Criterion | Justification                                                  | Reference |
| -------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| 21       |           | <ul><li><a href="1.2-stakeholders.md">Stakholder</a></li></ul> |           |
