analysis/1.6-hardware-and-software-requirements.md, before:

# 1.6 Hardware and Software Requirements

### Requirements

The requirements for this project relate to the hardware and software necessary to be able to develop and run the project. My game is going to be a browser game, and so researching popular browsers and their requirements in necessary information for my development, so then people will be able to play my game.

As (Oberlo, 2023) found,

## Development Requirements

Description of what is meant by dev requirements

| Software           | Hardware Required                                                                              |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Node.js            | <ul><li>At least 4 v CPU'S</li><li>2 GB of RAM</li><li>25GB of storage</li></ul>               |
| Visual Studio Code | <ul><li>1.6GHz or faster processor</li><li>1.6 GB of RAM</li><li>200MB of disk space</li></ul> |

[(Visual Studio Code, 2023)](references.md)

[(Cloud 66, n.d.)](references.md)

## User Requirements

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Safari" %}
| Platform | Requirements                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Windows  | <ul><li>1.4GHz or faster processor</li><li>1 GB of RAM</li><li>128MB of VRAM</li></ul>                                                                                                        |
| Mac      | <ul><li>OS X Leopard 10.5.7 or Mac OS X Tiger 10.4.11 and Security Update 2009-002</li><li>Intel processor or a Power PC G5, G4,               or G3 processor</li><li>256MB of RAM</li></ul> |
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Chrome" %}
| Platform | Requirements                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Windows  | <ul><li>Windows 7 or later</li><li>Intel Pentium 4 processor or later that is SSE3 capable.</li><li>4GB of RAM</li><li>100MB of disk space</li></ul>                                            |
| Mac      | <ul><li>OS X El Capitan 10.11 or later</li><li>4GB of RAM</li><li>100MB of disk space</li></ul>                                                                                                 |
| Linux    | <ul><li>64-bit Ubuntu 14.04+, Debian 8+, openSUSE 13.3+, or Fedora Linux 24+</li><li>Intel Pentium 4 processor or later that is SSE3 capable.</li><li>4GB of RAM</li><li>100MB of RAM</li></ul> |
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Firefox" %}
| Platform | Requirements                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Windows  | <ul><li>Windows 7 or later</li><li>Pentium 4 or newer processor that supports SSE2</li><li>512MB of RAM</li><li>200MB of disk space</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Mac      | <ul><li>macOS 10.12 or later</li><li>Mac computer with an Intel x86 or Apple silicon processor</li><li>512MB of RAM</li><li>200MB of disk space</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Linux    | <p>The following libraries or packages </p><ul><li>glibc 2.17 or higher</li><li>GTK+ 3.14 or higher</li><li>libdbus-glib 0.6.0 or higher</li><li>libglib 2.42 or higher</li><li>libstdc++ 4.8.1 or higher</li><li>libxtst 1.2.3 or higher</li><li>X.Org 1.0 or higher</li></ul><p>                                      </p> |
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

[(Safari, n.d.)](references.md), [(Apple, 2009)](references.md)

[(Google, 2023)](references.md), [(Google, 2023b](references.md)), [(AZCentral, 2019)](references.md)

[(Firefox, 2023)](references.md)

Commit message:

GITBOOK-220: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

analysis/1.6-hardware-and-software-requirements.md, after:

# 1.6 Hardware and Software Requirements

### Requirements

The requirements for this project relate to the hardware and software necessary to be able to develop and run the project. My game is going to be a browser game, so researching popular browsers and their requirements is necessary information for my development, so then people will be able to play my game.

As (Oberlo, 2023) found, chrome has 49.98% of users in the US, while Safari trails closely with 35.28%. It is therefore important to research the needs of the most common browsers, since it is likely these are the requirements that need to be met, and so my game can be accessible to as many people as possible.

## Development Requirements

Description of what is meant by dev requirements

| Software           | Hardware Required                                                                              |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Node.js            | <ul><li>At least 4 v CPU'S</li><li>2 GB of RAM</li><li>25GB of storage</li></ul>               |
| Visual Studio Code | <ul><li>1.6GHz or faster processor</li><li>1.6 GB of RAM</li><li>200MB of disk space</li></ul> |

[(Visual Studio Code, 2023)](references.md)

[(Cloud 66, n.d.)](references.md)

## User Requirements

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Safari" %}
| Platform | Requirements                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Windows  | <ul><li>1.4GHz or faster processor</li><li>1 GB of RAM</li><li>128MB of VRAM</li></ul>                                                                                                        |
| Mac      | <ul><li>OS X Leopard 10.5.7 or Mac OS X Tiger 10.4.11 and Security Update 2009-002</li><li>Intel processor or a Power PC G5, G4,               or G3 processor</li><li>256MB of RAM</li></ul> |
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Chrome" %}
| Platform | Requirements                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Windows  | <ul><li>Windows 7 or later</li><li>Intel Pentium 4 processor or later that is SSE3 capable.</li><li>4GB of RAM</li><li>100MB of disk space</li></ul>                                            |
| Mac      | <ul><li>OS X El Capitan 10.11 or later</li><li>4GB of RAM</li><li>100MB of disk space</li></ul>                                                                                                 |
| Linux    | <ul><li>64-bit Ubuntu 14.04+, Debian 8+, openSUSE 13.3+, or Fedora Linux 24+</li><li>Intel Pentium 4 processor or later that is SSE3 capable.</li><li>4GB of RAM</li><li>100MB of RAM</li></ul> |
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Firefox" %}
| Platform | Requirements                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Windows  | <ul><li>Windows 7 or later</li><li>Pentium 4 or newer processor that supports SSE2</li><li>512MB of RAM</li><li>200MB of disk space</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Mac      | <ul><li>macOS 10.12 or later</li><li>Mac computer with an Intel x86 or Apple silicon processor</li><li>512MB of RAM</li><li>200MB of disk space</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Linux    | <p>The following libraries or packages </p><ul><li>glibc 2.17 or higher</li><li>GTK+ 3.14 or higher</li><li>libdbus-glib 0.6.0 or higher</li><li>libglib 2.42 or higher</li><li>libstdc++ 4.8.1 or higher</li><li>libxtst 1.2.3 or higher</li><li>X.Org 1.0 or higher</li></ul><p>                                      </p> |
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

[(Safari, n.d.)](references.md), [(Apple, 2009)](references.md)

[(Google, 2023)](references.md), [(Google, 2023b](references.md)), [(AZCentral, 2019)](references.md)

[(Firefox, 2023)](references.md)
