design-and-development/2.2.2-cycle-2-login-and-register-system.md, before:

# 2.2.2 Cycle 2: Login and Register System

## Design

&#x20;In this cycle I want to be designing the login and register systems to allow people to create their account or login into their account and then use the game. I will need to create a login system for players and have it linked to the database created in [the first cycle](cycle-1.md), and also allow people to create new accounts. It should be able to take the input of the username and password from the players, and if these inputs are wrong in any way (if nothing was entered or the username isn't unique), then it should be flagged and the user shown this, and not able to enter until they have rectified these issues, and also not allow users to enter if they do not already have an account.

### Objectives

* [x] Create the HTML and CSS for the login system
* [x] Connect this to the database
* [ ] Have it tested and ready for use

### Usability Features

To have the system be useable, I need it to be clear to the user about what each step is, and what they need to do, but also needs to be [effective](systems-diagram.md#effective) so that it is as easy as possible for them to complete their aim, with the fewest steps possible.

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use |
| ------------- | --- |
|               |     |
|               |     |
|               |     |

### Pseudocode

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/Better login system mock.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>What I want the login system to look like.</p></figcaption></figure>

## Development

### Outcome



### Challenges

Having to incorporate express.js to connect the database and the rest of my code was challenging as it was a new language to try and briefly understand. There were also issues with trying to run the code on replit, and that the wrong file may display.

### Tests

| Test | Instructions | What I expect | What actually happens                                       | Pass/Fail |
| ---- | ------------ | ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| 1    |              |               | As expected                                                 | Pass      |
| 2    |              |               | Error displayed as it failed to input username and password | Fail      |
| 3    |              |               | As expected                                                 | Pass      |
| 4    |              |               | As expected                                                 | Pass      |
| 5    |              |               | Error displayed due to syntax error                         | Fail      |

### Evidence

Commit message:

GITBOOK-246: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

design-and-development/2.2.2-cycle-2-login-and-register-system.md, after:

# 2.2.2 Cycle 2: Login and Register System

## Design

&#x20;In this cycle I want to be designing the login and register systems to allow people to create their account or login into their account and then use the game. I will need to create a login system for players and have it linked to the database created in [the first cycle](cycle-1.md), and also allow people to create new accounts. It should be able to take the input of the username and password from the players, and if these inputs are wrong in any way (if nothing was entered or the username isn't unique), then it should be flagged and the user shown this, and not able to enter until they have rectified these issues, and also not allow users to enter if they do not already have an account.

### Objectives

* [x] Create the HTML and CSS for the login system
* [x] Connect this to the database
* [ ] Have it tested and ready for use

### Usability Features

To have the system be useable, I need it to be clear to the user about what each step is, and what they need to do, but also needs to be [effective](systems-diagram.md#effective) so that it is as easy as possible for them to complete their aim, with the fewest steps possible.

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use |
| ------------- | --- |
|               |     |
|               |     |
|               |     |

### Pseudocode

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/Better login system mock.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>What I want the login system to look like.</p></figcaption></figure>

## Development

### Outcome

At the end of this cycle I have a database that can be used to login and register users well, and allows for the user to easily and efficiently navigate the screens to enter their details.

### Challenges

Having to incorporate express.js to connect the database and the rest of my code was challenging as it was a new language to try and briefly understand. There were also issues with trying to run the code on replit, and that the wrong file may display.

### Tests

| Test | Instructions                                                                           | What I expect                                                                                                                                          | What actually happens                                      | Pass/Fail |
| ---- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| 1    | Create HTML for the user to decide whether to login or register                        | Similar to the pseudocode image above, where there is a login and a register option                                                                    | As expected                                                | Pass      |
| 2    | Create a HTML element for the login page                                               | The pseudocode above, with a username and password input element that is labelled                                                                      | As expected                                                | Fail      |
| 3    | Create a HTML element for the register page                                            | The pseudocode above but for registering, with a username and password input element that is labelled                                                  | As expected                                                | Pass      |
| 4    | A form after submitting these confirming if it was successful or if there was an error | A form where the user knows if their registration/login was successful and a lin to their next page                                                    | As expected                                                | Pass      |
| 5    | Connecting this to the database                                                        | If a user aims to register, their details should be added to the database, and if they aim to login, it should be checked whether they have an account | Error with connecting initially, took a while to then fix. | Fail      |

### Evidence
