# 2.2.4.b Cycle 4b: Continuing with Cycle 4

### Design

For this cycle, I want to continue development and make the puzzle in this part more complex and have more of an element of randomness for replay ability for the player so that it can be more enjoyable and also harder for them.

### Objectives

* [x] Add more to the map
* [x] Try to incorporate more puzzles into my game
* [x] Try to incorporate elements of AI into my game

### Usability Features

The game needs to still be engaging, which for this part can be done through harder puzzles

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use |
| ------------- | --- |
|               |     |
|               |     |
|               |     |
|               |     |
|               |     |

### Pseudocode

```
```

## Development

### Outcome



```
                     
```

### Challenges



### Tests

<table><thead><tr><th width="158">Test</th><th>Instructions</th><th>What I expect</th><th>What actually happens</th><th>Pass/Fail</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>Make sure that the platforms and the basic character elements work, as well as going from the previous scene to this one.</td><td>All platforms are added as expected and the transition to the scene works.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>Add the first button and make it so the second button can be added.</td><td>On contact with the first button the second one is added.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>The box should be added on contact with the second button.</td><td>A box to be added when  the player collides with the second button.</td><td>As expected </td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>The player should be able to open the final part of this level, when they meet the conditions.</td><td>When the button collides with the first button and the player collides with the second button, the ending is opened.</td><td>Not as expected, as it wouldn't originally open the path and there were issues with the player potentially being unable to complete the task. </td><td>Fail</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Evidence
