design-and-development/2.2.7-cycle-7-adding-the-final-level.md, before:

# 2.2.7 Cycle 7: Adding the final level

### Design

In this cycle, I need to add a final level that needs to allow the player to be able to finish the game. The level should be a bit simpler in design, similar to the first level, but also allow for some random elements that lead to some fun gameplay. This scene needs to tie together the elements of my game, for an ending that is satisfying and fun.

* [x] Add an element of gameplay that is random and fun
* [x] Add a way to end the game

### Usability Features

The relevant usability features for this cycle are going to be ensuring the game is engaging, that the game should be free of errors despite the fact in involves elements of randomness, and that the gameplay is easy to learn.

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use                                               |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| number        | The number of platforms that need to be added     |
| numberDone    | The amount of platforms that have been added      |
| formerHeight  | The height of the last platform added             |
| formerWidth   | The width of the last platform added              |
| newWidth      | The newly generated value of width                |
| newHeight     | The newly generated value of height               |
| height        | formerHeight + newHeight for the final new height |
| width         | formerWidth + newWidth for the final new width    |

### Pseudocode

```
    number = 6
    numberDone = 0
    formerHeight = height of rect
    formerWidth = width of rect

Function platform():
    If numberDone < number:
        Generate a random number randNum between 275 and 525
        Increment numberDone
        Calculate newWidth as randNum
        Calculate newHeight as randNum - 525
        Calculate height as newHeight + formerHeight
        Calculate width as newWidth + formerWidth
        Create a platform called nextPlatform:
            Positioned at (width, height)
            Tagged as "nextPlatform"
        Update formerWidth to width
        Update formerHeight to height
    Else:
        Call the finalPlatform function

Function finalPlatform():
    Generate a random number newWidth between 400 and 550
    Calculate newHeight as newWidth - 550
    Calculate height as newHeight + formerHeight
    Calculate width as newWidth + formerWidth
    Create a new platform called nextPlatform with:
        - A rectangle shape of size 500x50
        - Positioned at (width, height)
        - Tagged as "nextPlatform"
    Create a rod with:
        - Positioned at (width + 400, height - 85)
    Create a button with:
        - Positioned at (width + 365, height - 110)

```

## Development

### Outcome

The outcome is a sort of platformer game mode that adds a platform 6 times with a random height and random width&#x20;

```
        let number = 6;
        let numberDone = 0;
        let formerHeight = -200;
        let formerWidth = 1000;
        let nextPlatform;

        async function platform() {
            if (numberDone < number) {
                let randNum = (Math.random() * 250) + 275;
                numberDone ++;
                let newWidth = randNum   
                let newHeight = randNum  - 525;
                let height = newHeight + formerHeight;
                let width = newWidth + formerWidth
                if (height > 0) {
                    height = -height;
                }
                nextPlatform = add([
                    rect(100, 50),
                    pos(width, height),
                    outline(4),
                    area(),
                    body({ isStatic: true }),
                    color(2, 342, 200),  
                    "nextPlatform",
                ]);
                formerWidth = width;
                formerHeight = height;
            } else {
                finalPlatform();
            }
        }
```

This function is then called originally once they get onto a shape that is added

```
        let functionUsed = false;
    
        character.onUpdate(() => {
            camPos(character.pos);
            if (character.pos.x > 600 && functionUsed === false) {
                platform();
                functionUsed = true;
            } 
        });
```

And is then called for as long as numberDone is less than number.

A final platform is then added.

```
        let rod;
        let button;

        function finalPlatform() {
            let newWidth = (Math.random() * 150) + 400;    
            let newHeight = newWidth - 550;
            let height = newHeight + formerHeight;
            let width = newWidth + formerWidth
            nextPlatform = add([
                rect(500, 50),
                pos(width, height),
                outline(4),
                area(),
                body({ isStatic: true }),
                color(2, 342, 200),  
                "nextPlatform",
            ]);
            rod = add([
                sprite("rod"),
                pos(width + 400, height-85),
                area(),
                body({ isStatic: true }),
                scale(12),               
            ])
            button = add([
                sprite("button"),
                pos(width + 365, height-110),
                area(),
                body({ isStatic: true }),
                scale(12),           
                "button",
            ])
        }
```

Colliding with this button then will let them end the game.

### Challenges



### Tests

| Test | Instructions | What I expect | What actually happens | Pass/Fail |
| ---- | ------------ | ------------- | --------------------- | --------- |
| 1    |              |               |                       | Pass      |
| 2    |              |               |                       | Pass      |
| 3    |              |               |                       | Pass      |
| 4    |              |               |                       | Fail      |
| 5    |              |               |                       | Fail      |

### Evidence

Commit message:

GITBOOK-297: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

design-and-development/2.2.7-cycle-7-adding-the-final-level.md, after:

# 2.2.7 Cycle 7: Adding the final level

### Design

In this cycle, I need to add a final level that needs to allow the player to be able to finish the game. The level should be a bit simpler in design, similar to the first level, but also allow for some random elements that lead to some fun gameplay. This scene needs to tie together the elements of my game, for an ending that is satisfying and fun.

* [x] Add an element of gameplay that is random and fun
* [x] Add a way to end the game

### Usability Features

The relevant usability features for this cycle are going to be ensuring the game is engaging, that the game should be free of errors despite the fact in involves elements of randomness, and that the gameplay is easy to learn.

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use                                               |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| number        | The number of platforms that need to be added     |
| numberDone    | The amount of platforms that have been added      |
| formerHeight  | The height of the last platform added             |
| formerWidth   | The width of the last platform added              |
| newWidth      | The newly generated value of width                |
| newHeight     | The newly generated value of height               |
| height        | formerHeight + newHeight for the final new height |
| width         | formerWidth + newWidth for the final new width    |

### Pseudocode

```
    number = 6
    numberDone = 0
    formerHeight = height of rect
    formerWidth = width of rect

Function platform():
    If numberDone < number:
        Generate a random number randNum between 275 and 525
        Increment numberDone
        Calculate newWidth as randNum
        Calculate newHeight as randNum - 525
        Calculate height as newHeight + formerHeight
        Calculate width as newWidth + formerWidth
        Create a platform called nextPlatform:
            Positioned at (width, height)
            Tagged as "nextPlatform"
        Update formerWidth to width
        Update formerHeight to height
    Else:
        Call the finalPlatform function

Function finalPlatform():
    Generate a random number newWidth between 400 and 550
    Calculate newHeight as newWidth - 550
    Calculate height as newHeight + formerHeight
    Calculate width as newWidth + formerWidth
    Create a new platform called nextPlatform with:
        - A rectangle shape of size 500x50
        - Positioned at (width, height)
        - Tagged as "nextPlatform"
    Create a rod with:
        - Positioned at (width + 400, height - 85)
    Create a button with:
        - Positioned at (width + 365, height - 110)

```

## Development

### Outcome

The outcome is a sort of platformer game mode that adds a platform 6 times with a random height and random width&#x20;

```
        let number = 6;
        let numberDone = 0;
        let formerHeight = -200;
        let formerWidth = 1000;
        let nextPlatform;

        async function platform() {
            if (numberDone < number) {
                let randNum = (Math.random() * 250) + 275;
                numberDone ++;
                let newWidth = randNum   
                let newHeight = randNum  - 525;
                let height = newHeight + formerHeight;
                let width = newWidth + formerWidth
                if (height > 0) {
                    height = -height;
                }
                nextPlatform = add([
                    rect(100, 50),
                    pos(width, height),
                    outline(4),
                    area(),
                    body({ isStatic: true }),
                    color(2, 342, 200),  
                    "nextPlatform",
                ]);
                formerWidth = width;
                formerHeight = height;
            } else {
                finalPlatform();
            }
        }
```

This function is then called originally once they get onto a shape that is added

```
        let functionUsed = false;
    
        character.onUpdate(() => {
            camPos(character.pos);
            if (character.pos.x > 600 && functionUsed === false) {
                platform();
                functionUsed = true;
            } 
        });
```

And is then called for as long as numberDone is less than number.

A final platform is then added.

```
        let rod;
        let button;

        function finalPlatform() {
            let newWidth = (Math.random() * 150) + 400;    
            let newHeight = newWidth - 550;
            let height = newHeight + formerHeight;
            let width = newWidth + formerWidth
            nextPlatform = add([
                rect(500, 50),
                pos(width, height),
                outline(4),
                area(),
                body({ isStatic: true }),
                color(2, 342, 200),  
                "nextPlatform",
            ]);
            rod = add([
                sprite("rod"),
                pos(width + 400, height-85),
                area(),
                body({ isStatic: true }),
                scale(12),               
            ])
            button = add([
                sprite("button"),
                pos(width + 365, height-110),
                area(),
                body({ isStatic: true }),
                scale(12),           
                "button",
            ])
        }
```

Colliding with this button then will let them end the game.

### Challenges

The biggest challenge faced in this cycle is that of making sure that the platforms added are going up in height, as it was possible that they would decrease. This led to this line being added

```
                if (height > 0) {
                    height = -height;
                }
```

as a precaution to prevent this. Other than that, it was originally possible that the final jump, which is supposed to be a bit harder, could be impossible, which led to the numbers being changed.

### Tests

| Test | Instructions                                    | What I expect                                                                                                                | What actually happens | Pass/Fail |
| ---- | ----------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------- | --------- |
| 1    | Adding the basic elements of the map            | The walls and floors to be added as well as the a rectangle                                                                  | As expected           | Pass      |
| 2    | Create the function platform() and call it once | A platform will be added with random coordinates, but should be 525 away from the rectangle added and be up and to the right | As expected           | Pass      |
| 3    | Keep calling                                    |                                                                                                                              |                       | Pass      |
| 4    |                                                 |                                                                                                                              |                       | Fail      |
| 5    |                                                 |                                                                                                                              |                       | Fail      |

### Evidence
