design-and-development/2.2.4-cycle-4-further-development-for-the-first-path.md, before:

# 2.2.4 Cycle 4: Further development for the first path

### Design

In this cycle I want to continue development on the map of my game but also want to use elements of AI to make the experience different for players. I also want to try and add more puzzles considering the game is a puzzle game, and so including this in the actual map would be good.

### Objectives

* [x] Add more to the map
* [x] Try to incorporate more puzzles into my game
* [x] Try to incorporate elements of AI into my game

### Usability Features

The game needs to be engaging in gameplay, and so the use of puzzles and platforms would allow this. The game should aim to have variations so that the game is not the same for both players but also so that the ability to replay for the player is possible, and they won't play the exact same game every time.

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use |
| ------------- | --- |
|               |     |
|               |     |
|               |     |

### Pseudocode

```
```

## Development

### Outcome



### Challenges



### Tests

<table><thead><tr><th width="643">Test</th><th>Instructions</th><th>What I expect</th><th>What actually happens</th><th>Pass/Fail</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>Add some platforms such as the floor, the roof, a wall to the left and a platform to jump onto</td><td>Platforms to be shown on the map in the desired location and with the desired properties</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>Adding the character into the map</td><td>The character to be added in the desired position</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>Adding movement to the character and also the camera that follows</td><td>The character to be able to move a set amount, only be able to jump when on the ground and have the camera following the layer at all times</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>Add the box and 'E key' graphic and have it so that when the character is colliding with the box, the graphic comes up</td><td>The box to be present  at a certain point and when the character collides with the box the graphic comes up.</td><td>Issues with the boxes hitbox, and then issues with collision of the character and the box, resulting in unexpected outcomes with the 'E key' graphic </td><td>Fail</td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>Add a new scene for after the box</td><td>A map the same as the one before with the rules on aspects such as movement speeds, however some platforms should be slightly changed to allow for progress</td><td>There were initially issues with the character, and the aspects around it, such as the camera and movement speeds</td><td>Fail</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Evidence

Commit message:

GITBOOK-262: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

design-and-development/2.2.4-cycle-4-further-development-for-the-first-path.md, after:

# 2.2.4 Cycle 4: Further development for the first path

### Design

In this cycle I want to continue development on the map of my game but also want to use elements of AI to make the experience different for players. I also want to try and add more puzzles considering the game is a puzzle game, and so including this in the actual map would be good.

### Objectives

* [x] Add more to the map
* [x] Try to incorporate more puzzles into my game
* [x] Try to incorporate elements of AI into my game

### Usability Features

The game needs to be engaging in gameplay, and so the use of puzzles and platforms would allow this. The game should aim to have variations so that the game is not the same for both players but also so that the ability to replay for the player is possible, and they won't play the exact same game every time.

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use                                                                                   |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| button        | A button that is added as part of the puzzle                                          |
| button2       | A second button that is added as part of the puzzle that requires an action to add it |
| box           | A box that is added as part of the puzzle that requires an action to be met to add it |
| buttonPressed | Determines whether the button has been pressed                                        |
| puzzleDone    | Determines whether the puzzle has been completed                                      |

### Pseudocode

```
//There are some more elements that are in the code but I didnt feel needed to be included since they were adde in previous code
//These include the speed and the camera, and also some platforms 

When the character collides with button:
    If buttonPressed is false:
        Set buttonPressed to true
        Add a new button sprite 

When the character collides with "button2":
    If button2Pressed is false and puzzleDone is true:
        Set button2Pressed to true
        Set puzzleDone to false
        Add a box sprite 

When the button collides with the box:
    If puzzleDone is false:
        Set puzzleDone to true
        When the character collides with button2:
            If puzzleDone is true:
                Go to next scene
```

## Development

### Outcome

The&#x20;

### Challenges



### Tests

<table><thead><tr><th width="643">Test</th><th>Instructions</th><th>What I expect</th><th>What actually happens</th><th>Pass/Fail</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>Add some platforms such as the floor, the roof, a wall to the left and a platform to jump onto</td><td>Platforms to be shown on the map in the desired location and with the desired properties</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>Adding the character into the map</td><td>The character to be added in the desired position</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>Adding movement to the character and also the camera that follows</td><td>The character to be able to move a set amount, only be able to jump when on the ground and have the camera following the layer at all times</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>Add the box and 'E key' graphic and have it so that when the character is colliding with the box, the graphic comes up</td><td>The box to be present  at a certain point and when the character collides with the box the graphic comes up.</td><td>Issues with the boxes hitbox, and then issues with collision of the character and the box, resulting in unexpected outcomes with the 'E key' graphic </td><td>Fail</td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>Add a new scene for after the box</td><td>A map the same as the one before with the rules on aspects such as movement speeds, however some platforms should be slightly changed to allow for progress</td><td>There were initially issues with the character, and the aspects around it, such as the camera and movement speeds</td><td>Fail</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Evidence
